In this video we're going to go ahead and install the Marsico database server on a Windows machine.
So if you're not running Windows move onto the next video or the one after that where I show you how
to do the same thing.
But for Mac or Linux machine.
But if you're using Windows you're in the right place so let's continue.
So the first thing we want to do is go to the Web site Dave Marsico dot com.
Tim
once we get there when you click on My sequel downloads you want to come here and click on my Sakal
on Windows and then we want to click on my Seacole install and that's keeping the option here that if
you've got an online connection while running the bicycle installer to choose a version of the web version
which is much smaller or if you don't have an online connection to use the installer which is the full
product I suggest you just grab the full product because it makes it a little bit easier and you can
just install it.
But depending on which option you want to choose select that in my case I'm going to choose the second
one.
I just going to stop that and I'm just going to talk about something else.
And by the by asking whether we want to set up an oracle web account because our own mighty Marsico
product or log in we can click on I think to start my download.
So just stop that downloading.
It starts when I actually go back a few times.
I just want to show you how to click on the Marsico installer option here it actually said my second
install is 32 bit but will install by 32 and 64 bit boundaries and intimate and I'm going to show you
when we get to the installation prices had to select that.
So what you will need to know is whether your Windows machine is running a 32 or 64 bit version of Windows
and you can generally find that in about in the control panel to see whether you're actually running.
So let's quickly do that while we're waiting for this to download.
They're going to go into the control panel and you can normally go into the back by searching for about
and ordinarily depending on your version of Windows it'll tell you system top 64 bit operating system.
So not so much concerned about the processor because it is possible to have a 32 bit version of Windows
running the operating system with a 64 bit version with a 64 bit processor.
So we actually want to tie this Bihi the 64 bit operating system so you only tonight whether you're
running the 32 or 64 bit version.
So you saw how I checked that information on Windows 10.
If you're running an old version of Windows you can generally find that in the system part of control
panel there'll be a screen similar to this one you can find out which version of Windows you're running
a 32 or 64 bit edition.
And again Onate that we get to the stage of installing Marsico We're also going to pause the video and
come back once it's fully downloaded and continue the installation.
OK so we can we can say that the installation has completed.
So no we need to open the file that we've downloaded so I'm just going to select Open and he obviously
you never get to the folder.
If your browser doesn't give you the option to open it from there like I've just done and that's going
to stop the install I'll give that a moment click on yes and it pops up to set to say that to allow
this app to make changes to your machine.
The installation will then proceed and may pop up again and ask you to allow this app to make changes.
In my case it did pop that twice and then you get to the license agreement.
So when I click on it I accept the license terms and click on next and then we get this option or we
can choose the set up top.
No other is ready.
Buttons here to the left and to the right it gives you a description of what it's actually going to
install.
So you can see the first option that installs is Marsico sever the toes required for application development
because server idli does just that installs only the SQL Server Client option going to full option but
to the option we kind of select is the custom option so that we're installing the things that we need
for this cause.
I'm going to click on custom and I'm going to click on next.
Once we've done that we get this screen here where you can see to the left hand side there's a list
of available products and the right hand side has a list of the products that are to be installed.
Currently that's empty because we haven't selected anything yet.
We're going to come out here first and then click on the plus four to the left of music with services
and clicking on the plus click on again.
And eventually we get the option.
And I mentioned on the previous screen that the installable installed by 32 and 64 bit versions.
And in fact you can see there that it does say that.
So you can say that both versions are available.
So I got back to my second again.
You want to install only the version that's appropriate for your operating system.
And again if you recall we went through to determine which top of operating system whether it's a 62
or 34 version for your computer.
In my case mine is 64 bit so I'm going to select the x 6 4 and click on the arrow to make it cross to
the right hand side.
So that's now going to be installed.
The next thing we want to do is come out of the two applications on the plus again we want to select
Marsico workbench click on the plus and click on the plus again to type in the version and we can see
there is also a 64 bit on the 32 bit version so I'm going to select the 64 bit again and move that either.
And by the way the version numbers might change depending on when you're watching this video or it might
be a lighter version but the principle is still the same to select the relevant version and deselect
of the 64 bit or 32 bit version.
What's at this point now we've selected the only two products we need.
So I'm going to click on next week and click on execute and that's going to start the installation of
by products onto this computer.
And once that's finished we need to get real configuration step to set up usernames and so on and so
forth.
So I'll post the video.
We'll come back once this is complete OK so it's not finished installation I'm going to click on next
the next.
It's telling us that it needs to go through and configure the product.
So when I click on next and that will bring up the configuration options and configuration top he will
we can select various different options but we're going to leave that default up development machine
since that's exactly what we're doing here we're using it as developers.
Now in terms of the port I'm going to leave it on the default number.
It needs to be a unique port number that's not used anywhere else.
It's not used for another application on this computer.
So three three or six will be fine for a remote computer so normally that will work for your computer
as well.
Most of the defaults or I call you don't need to change anything or say click on next.
Next it's asking is for what the root password is now the root account is created automatically by my
Seacole and is a lock on that is the most powerful user in the system and generally speaking it's good
to use that username and password very sparingly when you know you know when you really need to do some
sort of super administrative tasks.
So what we've got to do is a sort of password for which we need to do.
But then we're going to create a new user that we're going to be using for our database of my cynical.
So you want to enter a password that is hard to guess and is quite secure.
So I'm going to put in a password
and tells me that the strength is medium so you might want to work on that and create a longer password.
So it is very secure and a strong password but to medium is probably a reasonable choice.
But so the next thing we need to do is click on use.
We're going to create a user as I mentioned that we're going to be using and we're use in this course
top in the name of the user are going to call this one Divx user but you can call it literally whatever
you lock in terms of the host.
We're going to change that to Likewise most importantly so that ensures that Lenni can only be used
locally which is appropriate.
We only want to be using this username locally.
We don't want access from any external source.
We leave the role as TB or admin and that's generally the default.
There's other options you can choose here but I'm not going to change any of that I'm going to leave
it on admin for now.
And we also need to enter a password for this or do you suggest should make it different to the user
and we need to remember that because we are going to be using that in this course.
So I'm going to interrupt
this case you can say I've got a strong password so probably I should have done that the other way round
and made the past with the really strong one.
But in any event you can change that later if need be.
But I'm going to accept that as the default.
And you can see down the bottom now that we've got a single use and I'm set up as well.
So no it doesn't happen.
Click on next and it's now wanting to know what some configuration and whether we want to set this up
as a service to run on Windows.
So we're going to accept all the defaults to that and click on next.
You know the plugins and extensions us screens popped up as you can see he says is related to a no sequel
based development which we're not working on using in this course so I'm going to accept all the defaults
and click on next and I'm going to click on execute and start the process of configuring my sequel on
this computer.
Southpaws Now last year was very deports but you can see it's already finished that it was pretty quick.
So we're going to click on finished now.
Our next and he can say we know time and leave the checkbox on start Mustique workbench I have to set
up.
That's because we want to run that just to confirm the installations.
OK so you can finish replace the browser down.
Now what we want to do is before we actually check that is we want to go into services on this computer
just to make sure the service has been installed successfully.
I click on the stop button and click on settings and I'm going to just do a search for services.
So you just go to where your normally configured services now.
Sometimes depending on the version of Windows to get to where you've got to you might actually have
to do it a different way.
You might have to go into a control panel administrative tools and services.
In any event you want to get there and once you've done that one to school on down here and to get to
my Seacole and it's usually in alphabetical order there's more sequel and you can see in this case it's
actually running automatic.
That's a good sign the fact that it's running tells us that the my secret service has been successfully
installed and it's actually running and what to do now just quickly show you you can actually write
this if your computer is low on resources you haven't got a lot of memory.
You can change it so instead of it starting automatically every time the computer starts you can right
click that and going into properties and you could for example make that menu click on OK.
And what that would mean is that they won't start automatically each time you turn the computer on so
you could actually stop the computer.
And if you just saw you doing some development in this course you could just come over to here.
Go into services and click on start.
And that would start for that particular session.
But in my case I'm happy to have this run automatically.
I've got enough resources.
I'm going to click on automatic so that every time I report the computer my sickle was available for
me or not.
So if confirmed that's running I case I closed that down and I could just quickly came back into services
again
the other thing was it for some reason probably everyone figured this out anyway.
But for some reason that wasn't running you could just click on start to make sure that it was started
or stopped at the start or it is a restart option as well.
You could try one of those if you had some difficulty starting it up for whatever reason.
But generally the installation should work for most people.
All right.
Getting back now to the Marsico weapons that started automatically once Marsico was installed.
I want to stop clicking on this like Winston so click on that and that brings up this screen that's
asking for the root use and I'm going to Tarpeian that reason I'm that I signed earlier in the video
and I'm going to choose not to cite it.
You could choose site the password if you like but for security reasons I prefer not to do that kind
of OK.
And this is I picked up which is a good sign that we got the password correct.
Come over here and click on service status that gives us a bit of an of you the fact that it's actually
running as you can see the number of connections but all of this is we have actually got some connections
because of the installation and a bit of traffic and all these efficiency things and bits and pieces.
But obviously that won't be a lot happening at the moment and that's because we haven't really started
using it yet.
But bearing in mind that we are actually wiping the database because we've used more sequel to actually
do that.
Case you're wondering where the connections are actually coming from.
You can come over here and click on users and privileges and that will confirm the list of users so
you can see that we had the root account which was sort of automatically created for us.
And those are the user account that we created.
Right I click on the view you know from the view menu and select time we'll get back to where we were
never going to come over here and click on this little wrench to the right of the Pusong which is managing
connections that should open up to some little screen here so you can say to the left there we've got
to manage sever connections.
So I'm going to click on this like instant spot 657 I'm going to click on test connection and it's been
a password that Republicans are going to top that in.
And you can see they have successfully made the musical connections.
That tells us that Marcy was working correctly and were able to connect to the database and that obviously
is going to serve us well in a future video when we start using my school.
So that's.
We're going to click on close robot and let's click on the pluses Tony are going to add a new connection.
We're going to add on the connection for what we're going to be using in this course.
Complex and the connection fine.
I'm just going to call it development but you can call it whatever you like.
And we're going to change the user name instead of root.
We're going to change that to the user name we created between dev user.
So I'm going to click on test connection then I'm going to enter they use the password rather for this
particular use name that we've set up.
Remembering that this isn't the right use that this is the other user of
I click on i.
And you could say we made a successful connection that tells us that the username and password are valid
and we could do that and click on Tai-Chi then importantly click on OK to edit user.
We've now got a second connection configured under the Marsico connections we're going to be able to
use that in the course so I'm going to finish the video here and now we're actually done in the next
video as I mentioned at the start.
It's actually a video for Mac users.
So if you just install this on Windows and you haven't got a Mac and or a Linux machine you can skip
the next one or two videos and move onto the video after that where we actually start working with this
database that we've just installed and configured.
So I'll see you in that next video.